In the previous video, we already learn about
inter vlan routing, which is connecting between
pc in the different vlan using router.
And we also already learn about dhcp server,
so all computer can get an ip address automatically.
Now, in this video, we are going to learn
about switch virtual interface.
What is that?
Switch virtual interface or svi is a method
to connecting between pc in the different
vlan without router, but we can using multi
layer switch, or MLS
or some people also call layer 3 switch.
Here we can see that we have two type of switch,
the first one is 2960,
and the second one is 3560.
Here the first number indicate the type of switch.
If the first number is 2 like this, so this
is layer 2 switch, but if the first number
is 3 like this, so this is layer 3 switch.
In the previous video, we already learn that
if we want to connecting between pc in the
different vlan, we need a router.
But now, we are going to learn something new,
which is connecting between pc in the different
vlan using multi layer switch.
If the switch is multi layer switch or layer
3 switch, so we can connecting different network
using switch.
Because the switch have an ability for layer 3.
Remember that layer 3 is connection between
different network.
This is why we call this switch as multi layer
switch.
In cisco switch, if the series number started
by 3, so this is layer 3 switch or multi layer switch.
And if the series number started by 2, this
means that the switch is only layer 2,
which is only use to connecting between pc in the
same network.
If we want to connecting between pc in the
different vlan, we can not use layer 2 switch.
We must use multi layer switch, which is switch
series that started by 3.
Okay I think enough for this video, in the
next video, we are going to learn how to connecting
between pc in the different vlan using multi
layer switch.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video.